README.md, before:

# Microservices

![](images/mservice-overview.png)

What are microservices?

1. Small business services
1. Can work together
1. Can be deployed independently
1. Communicate w/ each other
1. Technology agnostic

![](images/mservice-characteristic.png)

# Monolithic vs Microservice

## Monolithic Pro-Con

![](images/monolithic-pro-con.png)

## Microservice Pro-Con

![](images/mservice-pro-con.png)

## Deployment Comparison

![](images/deploy-compare.png)

# Docker and Docker Compose

1. Rebuild
	```cmd
	docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up --build
	```

# Catalog API - MongoDB

- localhost:8000
  - When running from docker

## Big Picture

![](images/big-picture.png)

## Catalog Design and Architecture

![](images/catalog/overview.png)

### Endpoints

![](images/catalog/endpoints.png)

### Layered Architecture

![](images/catalog/layered-arch.png)

### Repository Pattern

![](images/catalog/repo-pattern.png)

## MongoDB Setup

We are going to set up mongo in our docker environment

1. [Official Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo)
1. Install mongo on Docker
   ```ps1
   docker pull mongo
   ```
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 27017:27107 --name shopping-mongo mongo
   ```
   - Port forwarding (check my docker repo for more info)
1. Run commands inside mongo docker container
   - To create tables, etc, everything you can do on mongodb
   ```ps1
   docker exec -it shopping-mongo /bin/bash
   ```
1. Hooking mongo up to .net
   - [MongoDB.Driver](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MongoDB.Driver/) Nuget package
1. [MongoClient](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongoclient/mongoclient)
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 mongoclient/mongoclient
   ```
   - Gives us a GUI for our mongo db
   - Best part, it's ran from docker just like the db

## Mongo CLI Commands

Run this command to connect to mongo docker image

```ps1
docker exec -it shopping-mongo /bin/bash
```

1. This will have you running linux commands from w/i the docker image (which is a linux image)
1. Simply type `mongo` to enter the mongo db cli
1. Show databases
   ```js
   show dbs
   ```
1. Create new database
   ```js
   use CatalogDb
   ```
   ```js
   db.createCollection('Products');
   ```
1. Insert many items
   ```mongo
   db.Products.insertMany([{}, {}])
   ```
1. There are more, check the `mongo-commands.txt` in the `Services\Catalog` folder

# Basket.API - Redis

- localhost:8001
  - When running from docker

## Big Picture

![](images/big-picture.png)

## Basket Design and Architecture

![](images/basket/overview.png)

### Endpoints

![](images/basket/endpoints.png)

### Layered Architecture

![](images/basket/layered-arch.png)

## Redis

We will be using redis in the basket api

1. Open-source NoSQL database
1. Remote Dictionary server
1. Key-value pairs
1. Data Structure Server
1. Extremely fast
1. Save data both on RAM and on disk

## Redis Setup

1. [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis)
   ```ps1
   docker pull redis
   ```
1. Docker run command
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name aspnetrun-redis redis
   ```
1. Get inside redis image
   ```ps1
   docker exec -it aspnetrun-redis /bin/bash
   ```
1. Hook .net up to redis
   - [Nuget Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.StackExchangeRedis/)

## Redis CLI

```bash
redis-cli
ping

set key value
get key
set name mehmet
get name
```

## Test Data

```json
{
  "userName": "ghake",
  "items": [
    {
      "quantity": 2,
      "color": "Red",
      "price": 500,
      "productId": "123456789",
      "productName": "IPhone X"
    },
    {
      "quantity": 1,
      "color": "Blue",
      "price": 500,
      "productId": "123456788",
      "productName": "Samsung 10"
    }
  ]
}
```

# Portainer

- [Documentation](https://docs.portainer.io/v/ce-2.11/start/intro)
- [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/portainer/portainer-ce)

1. Manage container-based software applications
1. k8s, docker, docker swarm, azure aci, and edge
1. Manage environments, deploy apps, monitor app performance, triage problems
1. localhost:9000
   - When running from docker

# Discount API - Postgres

## Big Picture

![](images/big-picture.png)

## PostgreSQL

1. [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres)
   ```ps1
   docker run --name some-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d postgres
   ```
1. But we will use docker-compose from the beginning
1. Using pgAdmin (from of course docker)
   - [Link](https://hub.docker.com/r/dpage/pgadmin4)
   - localhost:5050 when running from docker
1. Creating a DiscountServer (server) and DiscountDb (database)
1. [Nuget Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Npgsql/)
   - Npgsql

# Discount gRPC for Microservices Grpc Communication

## Big Picture

![](images/big-picture.png)

## gRPC

![](images/grpc-overview.png)

![](images/grpc-example.png)

- [gRPC vs Rest](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/api-management/understanding-grpc-openapi-and-rest-and-when-to-use-them)

Commit message:

getting 'clean' arch setup for ordering still messy

README.md, after:

# Microservices

![](images/mservice-overview.png)

What are microservices?

1. Small business services
1. Can work together
1. Can be deployed independently
1. Communicate w/ each other
1. Technology agnostic

![](images/mservice-characteristic.png)

## Big Picture

![](images/big-picture.png)

# Monolithic vs Microservice

## Monolithic Pro-Con

![](images/monolithic-pro-con.png)

## Microservice Pro-Con

![](images/mservice-pro-con.png)

## Deployment Comparison

![](images/deploy-compare.png)

# Docker and Docker Compose

1. Rebuild
	```cmd
	docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up --build
	```

# Catalog API - MongoDB

- localhost:8000
  - When running from docker

## Catalog Design and Architecture

![](images/catalog/overview.png)

### Endpoints

![](images/catalog/endpoints.png)

### Layered Architecture

![](images/catalog/layered-arch.png)

### Repository Pattern

![](images/catalog/repo-pattern.png)

## MongoDB Setup

We are going to set up mongo in our docker environment

1. [Official Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo)
1. Install mongo on Docker
   ```ps1
   docker pull mongo
   ```
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 27017:27107 --name shopping-mongo mongo
   ```
   - Port forwarding (check my docker repo for more info)
1. Run commands inside mongo docker container
   - To create tables, etc, everything you can do on mongodb
   ```ps1
   docker exec -it shopping-mongo /bin/bash
   ```
1. Hooking mongo up to .net
   - [MongoDB.Driver](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MongoDB.Driver/) Nuget package
1. [MongoClient](https://hub.docker.com/r/mongoclient/mongoclient)
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 mongoclient/mongoclient
   ```
   - Gives us a GUI for our mongo db
   - Best part, it's ran from docker just like the db

## Mongo CLI Commands

Run this command to connect to mongo docker image

```ps1
docker exec -it shopping-mongo /bin/bash
```

1. This will have you running linux commands from w/i the docker image (which is a linux image)
1. Simply type `mongo` to enter the mongo db cli
1. Show databases
   ```js
   show dbs
   ```
1. Create new database
   ```js
   use CatalogDb
   ```
   ```js
   db.createCollection('Products');
   ```
1. Insert many items
   ```mongo
   db.Products.insertMany([{}, {}])
   ```
1. There are more, check the `mongo-commands.txt` in the `Services\Catalog` folder

# Basket.API - Redis

- localhost:8001
  - When running from docker

## Basket Design and Architecture

![](images/basket/overview.png)

### Endpoints

![](images/basket/endpoints.png)

### Layered Architecture

![](images/basket/layered-arch.png)

## Redis

We will be using redis in the basket api

1. Open-source NoSQL database
1. Remote Dictionary server
1. Key-value pairs
1. Data Structure Server
1. Extremely fast
1. Save data both on RAM and on disk

## Redis Setup

1. [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis)
   ```ps1
   docker pull redis
   ```
1. Docker run command
   ```ps1
   docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name aspnetrun-redis redis
   ```
1. Get inside redis image
   ```ps1
   docker exec -it aspnetrun-redis /bin/bash
   ```
1. Hook .net up to redis
   - [Nuget Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.StackExchangeRedis/)

## Redis CLI

```bash
redis-cli
ping

set key value
get key
set name mehmet
get name
```

## Test Data

```json
{
  "userName": "ghake",
  "items": [
    {
      "quantity": 2,
      "color": "Red",
      "price": 500,
      "productId": "123456789",
      "productName": "IPhone X"
    },
    {
      "quantity": 1,
      "color": "Blue",
      "price": 500,
      "productId": "123456788",
      "productName": "Samsung 10"
    }
  ]
}
```

# Portainer

- [Documentation](https://docs.portainer.io/v/ce-2.11/start/intro)
- [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/r/portainer/portainer-ce)

1. Manage container-based software applications
1. k8s, docker, docker swarm, azure aci, and edge
1. Manage environments, deploy apps, monitor app performance, triage problems
1. localhost:9000
   - When running from docker

# Discount API - Postgres

## PostgreSQL

1. [Docker Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres)
   ```ps1
   docker run --name some-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d postgres
   ```
1. But we will use docker-compose from the beginning
1. Using pgAdmin (from of course docker)
   - [Link](https://hub.docker.com/r/dpage/pgadmin4)
   - localhost:5050 when running from docker
1. Creating a DiscountServer (server) and DiscountDb (database)
1. [Nuget Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Npgsql/)
   - Npgsql

# Discount gRPC for Microservices Grpc Communication

## gRPC

![](images/grpc-overview.png)

![](images/grpc-example.png)

- [gRPC vs Rest](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/api-management/understanding-grpc-openapi-and-rest-and-when-to-use-them)

# Ordering Microservice with Clean Arch and CQRS

## Overview

![](images/order/overview.png)

## Architecture

![](images/order/arch.png)

## CQRS and Domain Driven Design Overview

![](images/order/cqrs-ddd.png)

## Domain Driven Design

![](images/order/ddd.png)
